# 基础

## Layers
### Hardware 
Lowest level
Physical entities
### Linux Kernel
Core of operating system
Software residing in memory telling CPU what to do
Acts as interface between hardware and any running program
### Processes
Running programs managed by kernel Called user space

##  Modes
###  Kernel Mode
Code running in kernel mode has unrestricted access to processor & main memory
Can easily crash an entire system Often called kernel space
### User Mode
Code running here restricted to a small subset of memory Often called user space
The main memory allocated by the kernel for user processes

## Basic Commands
### `ls`
list the contents of a directory
`$ ls -l` for a detailed (long) listing 
`$ ls -F` for displaying file type information.

### `cp`
copy a file or rename a file
`$ cp file1 file2` cp copies files.
`$ cp file1 ... fileN dir` To copy a number of files to a directory (folder) named dir.


### `mv`
mv (move) command is like cp.
`$ mv file1 file2` it renames a file
`$ mv file1 ... fileN dir` move a number of files to a different directory.

### `rm`
delete (remove) a file
`$ rm file` generally file cannot be undeleted. 


### `echo`
prints its arguments to the standard output:
`$ echo "this is a echo test\n this is another line" > test5.txt`


### `rmdir`
`$ mkdir dir` The mkdir command creates a new directory dir
`$ rmdir dir` The rmdir command removes the directory dir. If dir isn’t empty, this command fails. use `$ rm -rf dir` to delete a directory and its contents.


### `grep`
prints the lines from a file or input stream that match an expression
`$ grep root /etc/*` check every file in /etc that contains the word root

Two important grep options are
- -i (for case-insensitive matches)
- -v (which inverts the search, that is, prints all lines that don’t match)
  
`grep` understands patterns known as regular expressions
.* matches any number of characters (like the * in wildcards). . matches one arbitrary character.

`less` and `more`
Useful when a file is really big or when a commands output is long and scrolls off the top of the screen
`$ less /usr/share/dict/words` Look up all files under that dir
`$ less ./test.txt` Look up small portion of the content in this file
Press the spacebar to go forward in the file 
`b` key to skip back one screenful.
`q` to quit

### `diff`, `file`
`$ diff file1.txt file2.txt` Display the differences between two text files
`$ file file.txt` Use to find out format of a file 
